---
layout: post
title: "HW10: Chapter 15"
---

## 15.10: The reuse of software raises a number of copyright and intellectual property issues. If a customer pays a software contractor to develop a system, who has the right to reuse the developed code? Does the software contractor have the right to use that code as a basis for a generic component? What payment mechanisms might be used to reimburse providers of reusable components? Discuss these issues and other ethical issues associated with the reuse of software.  

Intellectual property issues are a legitimate concern with software reuse, but it is undeniable that software reuse is a central part of programming. Because of this, the same principles that apply to written works or films or other products don't necessarily apply to software in the same way. Without industry experience, I think the only way to determine who has the right to reuse developed code (or whether anyone has exclusive rights to any part of the code) is for the contractor and customer to come to an agreement at some point during the life of the project. This should probably follow loose guidelines put in place at the beginning and be solidified before the project reaches its end. Certain components may be appropriate to reuse for generic components, especially if multiple customers need a system based on the generic component but all with their own customizations (including the original customer), but reusing too specific of code can result in potential security issues or unwittingly disclosing the operations of a competitor. Because of this, variable and method names should be descriptive but non-specific to a particular interface or internal system. The person who coded a particular solution, if implementing a similar solution for another customer, should receive reimbursement for their time. To ensure fair compensation, they should be transparent that they are working from a generic component and not creating a new solution from scratch. But because the existing component is theirs, the value of that component should still be factored into negotiations and contracting, presumably at a lower cost than the initial development.
