---
layout: post
title: "HW1: Chapter 1"
---

## 1.3: What are the four important attributes that all professional software should possess?  Suggest four other attributes that may sometimes be significant.  

The four important attributes that all professional software should possess are maintainability, dependability and security, efficiency, and acceptability. Four other attributes that may be significant for professional software are being well documented, being compatible with a wide range of operating systems and architectures, being scalable, and generating meaningful errors and logs.  


## 1.8: Discuss whether professional software engineers should be licensed in the same way as doctors or lawyers.  

I do not think that professional software engineers should need licenses. Programming is one of the only fields I am aware of that can be learned with very little barrier to entry. With computer access becoming more and more readily available, licensing software engineering could create an unnecessary barrier for entry in a time where the field is still working desperately to expand and be more inclusive. Many people I know decided to experiment with coding because of how accessible the resources and tutorials are but may have been intimidated if they had to get a license to perform this work, especially looking at uncertainties that may be generated around open source, nonprofit, or freelance work for someone who knows enough to help but not enough to be licensed. I do, however, believe that certifications should be encouraged for employers who want their hires to demonstrate a certain level of competence with a concept or skill. Certifications allow for employers to be as selective as they want without creating a bar for entry where less professional competence with a skill may be needed.  


## 1.9: For each of the clauses in the ACM/IEEE Code of Ethics shown in Figure 1.4, propose an appropriate example that illustrates that clause.  

1) Public: Software engineers should work to protect the safety and privacy of users over profit or self-glorification  
2) Client and Employer: If a software engineer designs a product to help their client/employer make a profit, this should still not be at the expense of the public  
3) Product: If a software engineer releases a product as a final version, it should be free of vulnerabilities and bugs to the best of their ability  
4) Judgement: A software engineer should use their best judgement to determine whether something is in the best interest of the public and their client/employer, they should not be bribed or persuaded to act against this  
5) Management: Managers and leaders in software engineering should promote and model good judgement to set an example as leaders in their field  
6) Profession: Software engineers should work to set a standard of integrity that is expected of professionals bearing this title, setting themselves apart as more than just 'programmers'  
7) Colleagues: Software engineers should support and promote their peers, never working to sabotage or undermine them  
8) Self: Software engineers should strive to encourage fair and ethical approaches to their work as described above both in personal and professional settings as well as to keep an open mind and learn new skills and techniques, acknowledging and embracing that they work in an ever changing field  


## 1.10: To help counter terrorism, many countries are planning or have developed computer systems that track large numbers of their citizens and their actions.  Clearly, this has privacy implications.  Discuss the ethics of working on the development of this type of system.  

To work on large-scale tracking systems for the general public, I feel that your ethics must be extremely well defined, highly misguided, or non-existent. Unfortunately, it is possible to find enough people in the latter two categories that the owners of these systems can have them created in whatever manner they choose. Ideally, people working on these systems would largely fall under the first category--having extremely well defined ethical standards that would not allow them to compromise an individual's safety for some 'greater good.' Privacy should also be respected at some level, though some people say that this level of monitoring is antithetical to privacy at all levels. This is not necessarily true, if individuals' physical activities are not monitored inside their homes and as long as a majority of the population cannot be tracked throughout their day. This level of monitoring is a slippery slope, and this must be acknowledged at all times to work on this kind of software in an ethical manner. While I don't believe that working on this software is inherently unethical, I do believe that this software is largely used in unethical ways. Perhaps you need a loosely defined set of ethics to willingly work on this software in our current global climate, but if everyone with a well defined set of ethics refused to work on this software, would things be even more concerning than they are now? At least I can hope people with well defined moral codes work to keep these types of things in check, as much as they are able.
