---
layout: post
title: "HW3: Chapters 11 & 12"
---

## 11.4 What is the common characteristic of all architectural styles that are geared to supporting software fault tolerance?

A common characteristic of all architectural styles that are geared to supporting software fault tolerance (including protection systems, self-monitoring systems, and n-version programming) is that these architectures all rely on software diversity to achieve fault tolerance. This diversity can be achieved in different ways such as having different teams independently design code from the same specification or using different languages for different pieces of the code. The important thing to avoid is a common point of failure across multiple parts of the code.


## 11.7 It has been suggested that the control software for a radiation therapy machine, used to treat patients with cancer, should be implemented using N-version programming. Comment on whether or not you think this is a good suggestion.

While I think that N-version programming could be a viable option for a radiation therapy machine because of its use in the design of fault-tolerant software, I think that a self-monitoring architecture would be better for this particular use case. A self-monitoring architecture is good where a high reliability is prioritized over high availability, and medical care is a primary example of where this may be desired. From examples we saw in supplemental readings, safety-critical health systems may actually be a detriment to a patient's health if they are used incorrectly or designed improperly. In general, I believe it is more likely that a patient would have a bad outcome from an improper radiation treatment than having to wait a day for service to be restored if there was a known issue with a radiation therapy machine.


## 11.9 Explain why you should explicitly handle all exceptions in a system that is intended to have a high level of availability.

It is important to explicitly handle all exceptions in a system that is intended to have a high level of availability. If you don't handle exceptions, the entire system may fail and only give obscure hints as to how it failed or how to get it up and running again. Explicit error handling is essential to keeping the system from going down and, if it does go down, indicating how the system failed or how the failure can be resolved. This is also the only way that normal users may be able to interpret errors that may arise without the need for someone technical to interpret for them.


## 12.5 A train protection system automatically applies the brakes of a train if the speed limit for a segment of track is exceeded, or if the train enters a track segment that is currently signaled with a red light (i.e., the segment should not be entered). There are two critical-safety requirements for this train protection system: The train shall not enter a segment of track that is signaled with a red light, and The train shall not exceed the specified speed limit for a section of track. Assuming that the signal status and the speed limit for the track segment are transmitted to on-board software on the train before it enters the track segment, propose five possible functional system requirements for the onboard software that may be generated from the system safety requirements.

- 1) If a train's speed is greater than the speed limit of the next track segment, the train's brakes should be applied before entering the segment.
- 2) If a train is approaching a track segment signaled with a red light, calculations based on the train's current speed should be performed so that the train safely applies the brakes and stops prior to entering that track segment.
- 3) If an upcoming track segment's speed limit is lower than the train's current speed, onboard systems should determine when the train needs to begin braking to reach a speed no greater than the speed limit by the time it enters that track segment.
- 4) A train should continually compare it's speed with the speed limit of the current track segment to accelerate, stop accelerating, or apply brakes as appropriate.
- 5) A train should check verification across it's safety checks, coming to a safe stop if system or safety-critical failures arise.
