---
layout: post
title: "HW16: Chapter 20"
---

## 20.10 You work for a software company that has developed a system that provides information about consumers and that is used within a SoS by a number of other retail businesses. They pay you for the services used. Discuss the ethics of changing the system interfaces without notice to coerce users into paying higher charges. Consider this question from the point of view of the company's employees, customers, and shareholders.

The short answer to this question is that it is unethical to make design changes that unknowingly coerce users into paying more for a product or service. Shareholders may not mind depending on their own sense of ethics since it results in a net gain for them in the short term, but they would likely be upset if this change, in the long term, resulted in customers leaving this software company as clients. From the customers' point of view, there would likely be backlash and customers looking for a new vendor, if not legal action pressed against the software company if this was done with truly no notice. From the view of the company's employees, while it may gain more money for the company, it is unlikely that this money would reach the pockets of a majority of employees, but any future deficits from customers leaving likely would impact the salaries of more employees. This choice could damage the reputation of the company for a long time after it was discovered, and with the spread of news like this on social media and business news sources, the only people I can see this having any great benefit for would be the managers or executives who made this decision, even if it took time for these repercussions to arise. And even if there were no repercussions in this instance, that does nothing to negate the risks from doing this kind of thing again.
