---
layout: post
title: "Meeting Charleston"
---

A year ago, no one could have predicted how Meeting Charleston would have gone in 2021. Some events don't lend themselves well to being entirely virtual—even if the event can be ported to an online environment, the nature of the event would be drastically different. For an online event to go well it has to be designed for the platform its hosted on, which is generally more difficult when people are accustomed to the in-person experience. As a multi-year BSides attendee who has attended several virtual security conferences, the information might have been there but the experience wouldn't have been comparable in the least. But some of the smaller meetings, the kinds of regularly scheduled meetings occurring at least once a month with a handful of regular participants, lent themselves relatively well given the general state of the world in the past year.  

While some events were not able to be transferred online, the Charleston tech scene has been pleasantly resilient overall. A couple evens I attended this semester were a Charleston Women in Tech meetup and the Computer Science Department’s annual Alumni Symposium, and I think both were handled very well. The Women in Tech scene, from the bit I’ve interacted with it, seems to be a very strong community. They seem to have a good presence with helping women to break into tech while also providing other opportunities for connection, including a book club that they’re currently hosting weekly. Even amid COVID, they’ve continued a mentor series that’s been ongoing, and this is the event that I attended.  

For the March 2021 Charleston Women in Tech meet up, they hosted a Mentor of the Month meeting, #6 in the series, with guest speaker Valerie Warnock. Valerie primarily talked about social media, and ways to have a stronger social media presence. With 15 years of Human Resources and Talent Management experience, advice extended beyond some of the basic notes about having a good tagline and profile picture, but more closely examined the human aspect of things like how to write an effective summary on LinkedIn and how to have a good presence on other social media platforms. This contrasted with the class guest speaker, Richard Bliss, who largely talked about ways to manipulate the social media algorithm in one’s favor. Interestingly, the two actually had conflicting advice on certain points including how to, or even whether to, use some of LinkedIn’s job search functionality.  

Additionally, Valerie addressed some other social media concerns, like what’s appropriate to share on personal social media and where the line is between someone’s personal life and their public brand, and how a cohesive public brand can be built across various social media platforms if that’s someone’s goal. Ultimately, the recommendations came down to a very human aspect of presenting an authentic self while maintaining a firm separation between professional and personal accounts. I love the type of community engagement I’ve seen from Charleston Women in Tech and I hope to engage with them more as school comes to an end and I begin my career.  
