---
layout: post
title: "Release Early and Often"
---

## Teaching Open Source - Chapters 8 & 9  

The lead in to Chapter 8 of Teaching Open Source says something fairly unremarkable, but it says it in a tone I’m not sure I’ve heard before: “People are going to tell you documentation doesn't matter. In a perfect world, it doesn't!”  

Previously, I think the only way I’ve heard this idea presented was more along the lines of “always write good documentation, and if you write clear enough code you won’t need as much.” The central point in both these approaches is about clear communication, either for when someone else looks at your product or for when you return to it later, but I think the first statement presents it in a better way. While both convey, at some level, the importance of documentation, the way I’ve always been told this makes it sound like documentation is something that everyone is expected to not want to do and will try to do as minimally and poorly as they can get by with. The effect is subtle, but this doesn’t necessarily convey the importance of good documentation.  

The former statement, to me, is an acknowledgement that code *could*, in an ideal world, be written clearly enough that documentation is not necessary. But we don’t live in a perfect world, therefore, good documentation is a must. This statement makes documentation sound like less of a chore or something to resent than it makes it sound like we’re all human, with different levels of skill and understanding, and accounts for the simple truth that everyone can make a mistake in their code without making it feel like a shortcoming or being called out.  

The first section of this chapter also notes that documentation styles are a spectrum, with ends ranging from ad hoc flow of consciousness to content planned as a document. The chapter goes on in later sections, however, to explain how this doesn’t all need to stem from the effort of a central team or a handful of individuals. People who are interested in or who use the project can craft documentation from answers the developers give to their questions, or can help to format writing that the developers take down as unformatted brain dumps. I highly appreciate the start of section 8.5 though, for acknowledging that this isn’t always as easy as people make it sound. The idea was phrased so well that rather than trying to paraphrase, I’ll quote it here directly.  

“Documentation has a reputation as being an easy way to begin contributing to a project. This is more true where the new contributor is already experienced or an expert in the material. It is much less likely to be true where the project has not considered how to enable good and easy documentation, or the technical content is very high.” – [TOS 8.5]( https://quaid.fedorapeople.org/TOS/Practical_Open_Source_Software_Exploration/html/sn-Explaining_the_Code-Using_Documentation_as_a_Way_to_Get_Involved.html)  

Especially for someone new to the open-source community, this idea cannot be understated. Yes, contributing to documentation can have a relatively low bar of entry for some projects. But this isn’t always the case. For projects that aren’t well written, use a language or software the would-be contributor isn’t familiar with, or are otherwise highly technical, breaking into the project can be hard. This might be common sense to some, but others of us feel pressure (perhaps self-imposed, in part) that we should be able to do this thing everyone keeps saying is the easiest way to contribute. Seldom is this statement, that contributing to documentation is an easy way to get into open source, qualified. It’s ok to not be able to contribute to a particular project if you don’t understand all the technical aspects of the back end. If you really want to contribute to open source, you can ask questions and try anyway, or find a different project that has code you’re more familiar with. For most people, submitting their first pull request is anxiety-invoking enough without feeling pressured into contributing to a project they don’t understand because ‘documentation is easy.’  

And, if you still have doubts, remember this note from Chapter 9: "Remember: be bold. We will always have the option of reverting changes."  
