---
layout: post
title: "HW6: Chapter 2"
---

## 2.1 Suggest the most appropriate generic software process model that might be used as a basis for managing the development of the following systems. Explain your answer according to the type of system being developed:  

### a) A system to control antilock braking in a car.  

The waterfall model is most appropriate for this system since it is safety-critical software which will require a lot of analysis and documentation. This would help to ensure that proper levels of attention are given to defining and analyzing requirements and constraints, and that software is given adequate design consideration with an established architecture before large-scale implementation begins. Additionally, this allows for different units to be tested before all components are brought together and integrated into one system, which could be dangerous since this is a safety-critical system. Additionally, following this model for a safety-critical system allows for proper levels of accountability, since each individual phase must be signed off on (with consideration that these steps may need to be revisited later during the process).  

### b) A virtual reality system to support software maintenance.  

Incremental development is most appropriate for this system since some components are more system-critical than others, customer feedback will be received and is able to be integrated as the product develops, and the customer could gain value from using this system even in an incomplete state. Because this sounds like a system where proper logging and record keeping would be necessary (ongoing documentation of software being maintained), deliverables to managers would need to take this required level of auditing into consideration.

### c) A university accounting system that replaces an existing system.  

Integration and configuration is most appropriate for this system. This is because many existing systems can be purchased and adapted to fit this particular university's environment (possibly even reusing configurations from the old accounting system). This would save time and money on developing a product from scratch for a type of system that is commonly used by a variety of companies and very likely other universities as well. This is an example of where the user’s workflow may have to adapt around software rather than fully adapting the software around current workflows.

### d) An interactive travel planning system that helps users plan journeys with the lowest environmental impact.  

Incremental development is most appropriate for this system since some components are more system-critical than others, customer feedback will be received and is able to be integrated as the product develops, and the customer could gain value from using this system even in an incomplete state. Integration and configuration could also be utilized for this system, since there are many forms of travel planning systems and an increasing number of systems that take environmental impact into consideration. Very likely, there are components from both of these types of systems that can be reused and integrated together to develop this new system, even if neither functionality is fully available in an off the shelf product.
