---
layout: post
title: "HW11: Chapter 9"
---

## 9.8 Briefly describe the three main types of software maintenance. Why is it sometimes difficult to distinguish between them?  

The three main types of software maintenance are fault repairs (to fix bugs and vulnerabilities), environmental adaptation (to adapt the software to new platforms and environments), and functionality addition (to add new features and to support new requirements). It can be difficult to distinguish between these three types of software maintenance because there is no clear defining line between them. When adapting a piece of software to a new environment, it may be easy or sensible to add new functionality at the same time to take full advantage of the new environment. Similarly, when adding a new feature that builds on an old feature it may fix certain bugs or vulnerabilities that existed in the older version without explicitly having to fix that version of the code.  


## 9.10 Do software engineers have a professional responsibility to develop code that can be easily maintained even if their employer does not explicitly request it?  

I believe that software engineers do have a professional responsibility to develop code that can be easily maintained, even if their employer did not explicitly request it. With high turnover rates in certain sectors of the software industry, the fast-paced evolution of technology, and the possibility of people getting passed from project to project within a company as priorities change, it is inevitable that someone else will eventually have to maintain a piece of code you write. By writing code that is hard to maintain, you are costing your employer time and money somewhere down the line, even if it is long after you have left them behind. While definitely bad practice, depending on the type of software you were working on, there could be security or physical safety concerns associated with leaving behind code that is difficult to maintain, especially if it is not well documented either. Because of this, it is the responsibility of the software engineer to write easily maintainable code.
