---
layout: post
title: "HW13: Chapter 17"
---

## 17.10 Your company wishes to move from using desktop applications to accessing the same functionality remotely as services. Identify three risks that might arise and suggest how these risks may be reduced.  

Some risks that can arise when accessing functionality remotely as services include improper data management, poor scalability, and scope creep.  

Because multi-tenacity is often a requirement of SaaS, it is imperative that data is handled correctly on the back end. If data is improperly handled, it will not look to users like they are operating under their own instance of the software or users will not be able to simultaneously access data that should have shared access. Among other solutions, clients should have either their own database or be virtually isolated within a database so that customer needs will be met as appropriate.  

Scalability is often an issue when software services first move to the cloud, and sometimes continue throughout the life of a service. Scalability in the context of SaaS is different than software that is maintained on-premise. A distinction must be made between scaling software "out" and scaling software "up." The former implies the ability to perform simultaneous transactions in parallel, something not necessarily covered by scaling software up.  

Scope creep has to do with the uncontrolled growth of a project. This is a concern when moving from applications to SaaS because you no longer need the same resources on your machine or at your organization to be able to make use of certain services. A risk involved here is to budget and efficiency. While it may be tempting to opt in to additional services or features when making the transition to SaaS, it should be carefully weighed and assessed. Like other subscription-type services, there may be a lower initial rate meant to lure in customers so that they pay for functionality they don't actually need.
