---
layout: post
title: "HW5: Chapter 4"
---

## 4.5 Using the technique suggested here, where natural language descriptions are presented in a standard format, write plausible user requirements for the following functions: (1) An unattended petrol (gas) pump system that includes a credit card reader. The customer swipes the card through the reader, then specifies the amount of fuel required. The fuel is delivered and the customer's account debited, (2) The cash-dispensing function in a bank ATM, (3) In an Internet banking system, a facility that allows customers to transfer funds from one account held with the bank to another account with the same bank.  

1.1. The system shall prompt a user to swipe their card to begin a transaction.  
1.2. After the user's card has been swiped, the system shall prompt the customer to position the fuel nozzle in their gas tank and specify the amount of fuel they require.  
1.3. After the user specifies the amount of fuel they require and confirms the nozzle is correctly positioned, the fuel is delivered.  
1.4. After fuel delivery the user is prompted to return the nozzle to the fuel pump and a message displays indicating that their account has been debited.  

2.1. An ATM will prompt a user to insert their bank card to begin a transaction.  
2.2. After the user's bank card has been inserted, the user will be prompted to enter their PIN to confirm their identity.  
2.3. After a user has entered a correct PIN, they will be asked what function they wish to perform.  
2.4. After selecting that they wish to withdraw cash from their account, the system will ask how much money the user wants to withdraw (in increments of $20).  
2.5. After making a selection the user will be asked to confirm their selection.  
2.6. Upon receiving confirmation from the user, the system will dispense the desired amount of cash and ask the user if they would like to perform another transaction.  
2.7. Upon receiving an answer in the negative, the system will close out of the user's account and return their bank card.  

3.1. Upon navigating to the Internet banking system, a user will be prompted to sign in with a username and password.  
3.2. If a user logs in successfully, they will be shown their accounts along with a transfer option.  
3.3. When the transfer option is selected, the user will be prompted to select the account they wish to transfer from, the account they wish to transfer to, and the amount they wish to transfer.  
3.4. After inputting their information and selecting continue, the user will be asked to confirm whether the information is correct and it will be displayed for them in a condensed view.  
3.5. Upon confirmation that this information is correct, the funds transfer will be initiated.  


## 4.6 Suggest how an engineer responsible for drawing up a system requirements specification might keep track of the relationships between functional and non-functional requirements.  

One way to track the relationships between functional and non-functional requirements could be for the engineer to pair natural language descriptions with a structured or tabular specification in their documentation. This could also correlate to any business specifications or other requirement specifications that have been laid out for the engineer to consider or address while working on the project.  


## 4.7 Using your knowledge of how an ATM is used, developed a set of use cases that could serve as a basis for understanding the requirements for an ATM system.  

A user initiates a transaction by inserting their bank card into the ATM and confirming the PIN number associated with the same account. The user is asked whether they want to make a quick withdrawal ($20, $40, $60), check their balance, withdraw another amount, or close the transaction. The user selects one of the quick withdraw options, their cash is dispensed, a receipt is printed displaying the new balance of their account, the ATM closes the connection to their account, and their bank card is returned.  

A user initiates a transaction by inserting their bank card into the ATM and confirming the PIN number associated with the same account. The user is asked whether they want to make a quick withdrawal ($20, $40, $60), check their balance, withdraw another amount, or close the transaction. The user selects the option to view their account balance. A receipt is printed displaying the balance of their account and the user is prompted whether they wish to make a withdrawal. The user selects no. The ATM closes the connection to their account and their bank card is returned.  

A user initiates a transaction by inserting their bank card into the ATM and confirming the PIN number associated with the same account. The user is asked whether they want to make a quick withdrawal ($20, $40, $60), check their balance, withdraw another amount, or close the transaction. The user selects the option to withdraw another amount. The user is prompted for how much money they wish to withdraw. The user says they wish to withdraw $500 and confirms their selection. The ATM displays a message saying that this machine has an individual transaction limit of $200 and asks the user to input a new amount. The user withdraws $200, a receipt is printed displaying the new balance of their account, the ATM closes the connection to their account, and their bank card is returned.  
