---
layout: post
title: "HW9: Chapter 8 and Reflections on Testing"
---

## 8.7: Write a scenario that could be used to help design tests for the wilderness weather station system.  

For three seasons out of the year, normal use for one weather station includes reporting on temperature, precipitation, wind speed and direction, etc. The system is rebooted weekly to help maintain synchronization with the wider system and so that updates can be applied. Information can be accessed at any time and daily reports are stored. These daily reports are compiled into weekly and monthly reports that are automatically sent to the appropriate monitoring parties.   

In summer, however, the area this weather station is in is prone to fires. Brush is spread out and these fires are normally a healthy part of the ecosystem and climate of this area. In the last couple years, however, conditions have been drier than normal and one use of the weather station is to help predict and assess the risk for a fire spreading out of control. In addition to temperature, precipitation, and wind information, monitoring air quality becomes extremely important during these months. In addition to the regular reports that are run, the weather station should send alerts if certain conditions are met including high temperature-low precipitation and air quality that measures below a certain threshold. Wind speed and direction becomes extremely important information in the event of a fire given the recent change in climate, so in the event that an alarm is triggered, this information should be reported every 15-20 minutes so that the situation can be appropriately monitored.


## 8.10: A common approach to system testing is to test the system until the testing budget is exhausted and then deliver the system to customers. Discuss the ethics of this approach for systems that are delivered to external customers.  

I don't think that this is an ethical approach to testing. In this approach the test cases have to be carefully specified in advance, or else a narrow scope of test cases may be used. The danger here is that the budget runs out well before all use cases--or maybe even before all *common* use cases--have been addressed. Similarly, if there is a large team working on the project, multiple people or teams may waste time and money running the same tests on the same parts of the code. This leaves two options: asking the customer for more money (not a good option given the liklihood the project is already late), or delivering an untested product. Even after extensive testing it is not impossible for end users with limited knowledge of the system to uncover new bugs, so I wouldn't want to be the software engineer on the receiving end of having to fix this oversight.  

---

## Reflections on "Introduction to Software Testing":  
