---
layout: post
title: "Chapter 6"
---

It’s interesting how databases are so integral to many mid to large scale applications and yet the one database course I’ve taken (while quite useful) examined databases as a standalone entity and no other course has so much as mentioned the integration between databases and a software project in any significant way. I wonder if this would be something useful to touch on explicitly, and if so, in what course would it best fit under the current curriculum? In fact, I’m not sure that I’ve ever created anything persistent in analog with a course, even though some level of persistence seems to be a staple in most large-scale projects I can think of.  

After reading the first two sections of this chapter, I feel like I’ve just had a crash-course database refresher. It might be confusing for someone who didn’t know databases at all, but I think it could also serve well as a cursory level overview of databases and their functionalities. Discussing database security and lease-privileged access was a nice inclusion. It may be necessary to include levels of security when implementing database interactions so that not everyone can interact with every part of the database, but these small types of mentions are the closest I’ve seen in most classes to secure coding principles. The same line of thought applies to the next section on database integrity.  

Yet another thing that makes complete sense but that I’ve never considered: a database abstraction layer.  
