---
layout: post
title: "Chapter 9"
---

The general idea of handing off the code for an open-source project seems inevitable for the lifespan of any project, but it’s honestly a little strange for me to think about that in the short term. A lot of open-source projects probably die by not being handed off, or not being handed off well. Or there are the number of projects that evolve into a paid product or service, sometimes seeming to completely leave behind the principles of their humbler open-source beginnings. Things like having a robust wiki or forum or mailing list or Discord server, some way for the community to gather, seems like it might be one of the best ways to keep a project alive. But even this level of engagement and community maintenance may prove difficult if a project began with just a single developer or a small handful of developers.  

Then there are the broader issues of management the chapter discusses, as a project may find a wide user base and face opposing pressures to remain as a small project or to expand exponentially. And the person or people who originally conceived the project may find themselves further removed from planning and developing their project as more time has to be dedicated to various overhead aspects. Large companies have spoiled the consumer market in many ways, sometimes leading to misguided frustrations when dealing with smaller or independent projects and businesses. It’s like how Amazon has made 2-day shipping a standard and so many people use Amazon regularly that waiting a week or two for a package feels like mediocre service at best to some people.  

I’m pretty sure I recall writing a blog post that touched on this idea either earlier this semester or in CSCI 362 last semester—the idea that once a project hits a certain size, it is easy to not realize it is open source because there’s a certain level of quality associated with being a ‘professional’ application that we don’t necessarily expect of an open-source project. It’s funny how the inverse of this is that we frequently have to put up with sub-par work from certain companies because they’re large enough to be carried on merit of their name, and an interesting sort of middle ground to think about how the rollout of unfinished—or at least unpolished—features is perceived depending on the project it’s associated with.  

Embarking on the prospect of long-term open-source support for a single project sounds to me like a uniquely rewarding and a uniquely terrifying experience. I take the information from these readings and I see aspects of things I think our chosen project for this semester does well, and I see areas in which they could likely use more support. There’s definitely a sense of satisfaction and fulfilment in having worked on our contributions. Many of them were quality of life improvements rather that something that was explicitly needed, but some of these little QoL updates just make using the app more satisfying of an experience. The app has been tested by users and it didn’t necessarily break, but some of these more niche edge use cases weren’t handled in a way that offered the user explicit feedback about the status of their request. Will I continue to support this, or another, open-source project after this class? I’m not sure yet, but I do feel much more prepared to re-enter these waters when I’m ready.  
