---
layout: post
title: "Chapter 5"
---

As has been stated before in various ways and as will be stated many more times in even more ways going forward: developing new code has three significant activities – coding, unit testing, and system testing. Each of these steps is vital to a productive software development pipeline.  

With companies like Microsoft that have become ubiquitous, it’s difficult to imagine developers writing software to the language and terminology of the client instead of the clients having to adapt to the language and terminology of the software or service provider.  

A quote that I thought was really interesting from this section was “The original version of new software reflects a fairly naïve effort to implement its use cases in a straightforward way.” Especially as you build code up from the ground to match requirement specifications, or build it out and adapt it from an existing code base, it will likely be possible to avoid implementing some redundant or useless feature. These are much easier to see when everything has been written and the code can be traced using the help of tools in the IDE, as opposed to someone writing the code or planning the code trying to hold all these interrelated and interdependent pieces straight in an abstract sense. Some redundancies may be able to be caught at this early stage, but someone over eager to avoid these types of errors would likely just result in things being left out that were actually needed to function.  

“Traditional approaches would place testing sometime after all the coding is done. That is the wrong placement.”  

Maintain discussions between developers and clients so as to evoke concrete examples of system and user interface behavior throughout the design, development, implementation, and maintenance processes.  

I didn’t necessarily realize that testing frameworks are often integrated with IDE’s.  

I imagine it must be easy to ignore or overlook the testing of getters, setters, and constructors when implementing them in certain code, at least if the general attitude of students learning about them was anything to go by. They seem like they would be so simple and relatively easy that they may not need testing, or that writing tests for them may quickly get tedious depending on the respective sizes of the team and the application. But given the number of incorrect equal signs or missing semi colons or mis-paired brackets that I’ve already seen in 4 years as a student writing relatively small and simple programs, I can’t imagine how hard it could be to find a mistake like this in production if these small building blocks were not tested at their creation, depending on the language and the value of its error messages. And that’s assuming the code even threw an error in that block and not somewhere else when the instance variable was attempted to be used.  

Treat your customers well. They are the daily drivers and will often be the first to point out various bugs and errors. For a complex app or project, no test suite will be able to test the code as rigorously as that one person who likes finding ‘innovative’ and ‘creative’ uses to the software.  Continuous refactoring seems a worthy aspiration.  
