---
layout: post
title: "HW8: Mythical Man Month"
---

I was confused, at first, when seeing the name for today's reading. I honestly had no idea what to expect at all, but seeing what "man month" referred to made a lot of sense; I've heard of man-hours, and it honestly makes sense that for a large engineering project that measurements in hours would not hold as much meaning. 

There were several themes that stood out to me in the first four chapters of this book, one of the biggest being the idea of finding a way to maintain both diversity *and* conceptual integrity. Textbook chapters we've read have emphasized getting different teams to design things independently while using the same specification, or using different languages or tools. It was a thought in the back of my mind but taken for granted how these different components might actually work and integrate together. But what then of conceptual integrity? At what point does a piece of a program deviate too much so that it no longer fits a cohesive design of the whole? Each language or toolset used must have its own standards for documentation and how it is written so that it fits within both the project and company standards. And of course this has the potential to increase the size of the team. Can multiple 'surgical teams' work side by side on parallel projects/components, with both teams communicating via one point of contact when necessary? Or does this damage the integrity of the surgical team methodology?

And of course, as highlighted in these early chapters, "The added effort of communicating may fully counteract the division of the original task" (p 18). Simply to say, added effort in communicating may fully suffice to take up all time saved by dividing a task. It was said even more simply several pages later: "Oversimplifying outrageously,  we  state  Brooks's  Law: Adding  manpower  to  a   late  software  project  makes  it  later" (p 25). This is the entire point behind the surgical team setup--to have a small team of people creating a product under one master image. It was not discussed in chapter 4 how scalable this team structure is.

To avoid beating the same idea over and over, I'm going to move to a quote that drove home a second theme from these early chapters: "Function,  and  not  simplicity,  has  always been  the  measure  of  excellence  for  its  designers" (p 43). That is to say, if a piece of software works (often meaning the designer/programmer can operate it correctly) it need not have the simplest or most efficient design on the backend or for the user interface. When you've been working on a project for a long time, this is an easy enough trap to fall into. "It works! We're finally done!" may be sufficient when coding for oneself, or for a class depending on the goals stated in the syllabus or assignment specification (see, this class ties everything together!), but for a large project with many integrated parts or where a large number of end users will have to interact through an interface or API, this may not be enough. It is then the responsibility of the development team to remember that "Architecture must be carefully distinguished from implementation" (p 45), and to uphold this throughout the design, creation, and implementation process.
